Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> All right, welcome back to the Blush
podcast. This is your daily dose of
God's word transforming you to fulfill
God's purpose for your life. We're
looking at the subject matter the
newness of life and I believe it's
something that will bless you
tremendously. I believe it has been
blessing you already. Um we have seen
that when it comes to walking in God's
purpose for our life, it takes growth to
be able to do that. And this growth in
question happens on our mind. And
there's a particular aspect of our mind
it happens to which is the hidden man,
the hina man. And that is the part of us
that is expected to be brought to the
perfect man so that we can do all the
Lord would have us do. Okay. So having
seen that about ourselves, I've seen
that about our walking God's purpose. We
switch our attention and focus to what
do we need to grow on or with? You know,
we need to know God's word. But is there
any specific truth that makes for our
growth? And indeed, there is and it's
what we are now studying. Because you
say we need to grow in what areas do we
need to grow? We need to grow in love
and righteousness. But we can bring all
of that under one truth before we open
it up, which is precisely what we are
trying to do. Now indeed, the teaching
of God's word ex um extends to several
subject matters and we are meant to be
taught that. But there is one that ought
to become our final eventual major
focus, you know, and that's the truth of
the new creation or the newness of life.
The text that we have been examining to
establish this point is Ephesians
chapter 4 where we saw Paul explain that
the Lord Jesus gives us of the church to
perfect the saints until they come to
the unity of the faith, the knowledge of
the son of God, the perfect man, the
measure of statess of Christ.
Clearly the Lord wants every saint to be
well taught or fully taught his word.
And is there the possibility of fully
knowing God's word? The answer is yes.
And that's because we can see statements
in that regard in scripture. One example
is 2 Timothy 3:10. Paul talking to
Timothy. He told him, "You are fooling
on my doctrine." That's KJV says, "You
have carefully followed my doctrine."
The word is paracio. It simply means you
have gone on the journey of the doctrine
with me side by side. So it's like
someone going a lap of a particular race
with someone. Let's assume we have to
run three laps and someone goes you on
the lap of that race with someone the
first time. So he knows how to go the
second lap probably on his own. So he
says you have fully known my doctrine.
It can simply be called you have fully
followed my doctrine. So you have gone
the entire journey of it with me. And
then he told him in the same chapter 2
Timothy verse um 14 it says continue in
not continue from but continue in what
you have learned and have been assured
of. So we expected to go the entire
journey of the doctrine completely. Now
one of the ways you can do this of um I
mean there are many ways you should
happen in the local church but one way
we have made it possible for you to at
least in a summary form go through the
entire journey of the doctrine is with
the pleos perfecting course level two.
So level two would not exhaust the
doctrine by any stretch. But if you go
through perfecting course level two and
you listen through, you start to have an
idea of the exact framework of the
doctrine submitted by Paul and you see
how it runs a single thread through
Genesis all the way to Revelation. So
you can enroll for the Plle perfecting
course, listen to level one, listen to
level two, and I also encourage you to
listen to level three. Of course, you
would want to listen to level four as
well. the uh more demanding part of the
players perfecting course is level five
and if you want to go through that there
will be people to help you because he's
on the more demanding side and but it's
something that it's it gives you that
full closure relative to different
questions that can arise on the doctrine
of Christ but back to what we are saying
it is the expectation of the Lord Jesus
and the work of the leaders of the
church to perfect the saints right it's
their work to perfect the saints
But it's not just for them to bring us
to a to an end goal in knowledge, but
also to bring us to um this an end goal
in um in growth, the perfect man. So the
hidden man is meant to come to the
perfect man. What we notice is that the
walk we are meant to have, the work want
to have as a result of the work that the
leaders of the church do is a matter of
our mind. And we are told that those who
don't believe do not act this world
because there's one thing that is
lacking on their mind. They are futile.
They their understanding is darkening.
They are ignorance. They are blinded to
a particular truth. And we are then told
what that truth is in Ephesians 4:20 all
the way to 24. So he said, "You have not
so learned Christ such as to walk as
they do or to be ignorant, you know, of
this particular truth as they are."
Right? You have not so learned Christ.
If you did, you have heard him. You have
been taught by him. as the truth is in
Jesus that you put off concerning your
former conversation the old man. So this
truth is about this person this old man
and he says you should be renewed in the
spirit of your mind and you put on the
new man. Okay. So it's why we are
focusing our attention on the newness of
life. We said we could also call this
the new creation but for some reason
it's helpful to call it the newness of
life so that we can make some
explanation that would make the reality
of the new creation much clearer.
There's a tendency when we're looking at
the new creation to zoom in to the
internal conditions of the new man that
we are and sometimes lose out on some of
the external conditions that are
important. And I will explain what I
mean I believe in this particular
episode. Now in Romans chapter 6 and in
verse 4, Paul said
we were buried with Christ through
baptism into death. Just as Christ was
and I told you buried with Christ
through baptism into death is most
accurately into the second death. That
means we are already in the reign of
death and with him he entered into this
death reading world. light stepped into
darkness to go into the worst of death
or darkness so that he can exhaust it
legitimately and then bring us
righteously back into life. Now we were
buried with him into that death and he
was raised so that we can walk in the
newness of life. So he's talking about
domains or realms you know so we went
into death and now we are to walk in the
newness of life. We said the word
newness is used to show contrast with
old conditions, reality or nature. And
that's why the next two verses after
Romans 6:4, we're talking about the old
man and that we are no longer slaves of
sin, showing us the reign of sin. So the
condition of what he was exercising over
us is why you're going to see other
statements like sin will not have
dominion over you. So it's like a
domain, a reign, a rulership. Sin is
being personified a lot here as a as a
slave master. um of life. So he makes a
contrast between the old. Another
contrast he makes with the old is seen
in Romans chapter 7 and verse 6. In
Romans 7:6 Paul said there's the oldness
of the letter and there's the newness of
the spirit. So talking about people who
walked under the system of the law
before Christ came
and that now they have been called to
walk in the newness of the spirit. Okay.
But our focus has switched to the core
part of this issue which is life.
Because life is a generic word and when
you use the word newness of life is to
qualify that we're talking about a kind
of life. You have known one kind of
life. We're talking about another kind
of life. Newness of life and the word
the word life has been we might already
know is the word zoo right is the word
zoo. Now let me quickly make a case you
know I think to as far as I understand
EW Kon and Kennethy again who are
absolute heroes of the faith for me and
I think worthy generouses for anyone um
you know who loves people that love the
lord and have and have made you know his
word accessible clearer to us. I think
it's from them particularly I believe
Kon kind of life and then that they
going to add the material on on that
that we have the understanding of Zoe as
the god kind of life and I think there
is the possibility you know there's just
this thing that happens that language
changes and it can happen by a mistake
and then it becomes a permanent change
but there's an overwhelming
understanding today that ZU means kind
of life even though within the
scriptures is not used that Okay. The
challenge with this is if someone
encounters the word and the person is
looking at the word maybe using um a
concordance or using um
any of the Greek text whatever means the
person is using an inania one of those
and the person realizes he finds the
word Zoe here and already makes the
assumption that Zoe is the god kind of
life or Zoe anywhere else of which there
are so many instances where Zoe is used
and he's not talking about um the life
that we have in Christ. So the person
may likely make the mistake of thinking
every instance is talking about the god
kind of life and that would be a serious
mistake. So if we are taking this
license like this license in language
for our own sake today by by development
of things to say is always a god kind of
life that is understandable right but um
ordinarily that's not what the word
means like I pointed out in the last
episode but I was running out of time
that word zoe is where we have the words
today zoo and zoology because it's
talking about usually an animate kind of
life. Sometimes it may not be but mostly
an animate kind of life. Right? So you
see the word zooology is all about life.
In fact one of the word in the Greek is
the word zun for beast z o n. Um the
four living creatures or the four beasts
in revelation. The word beast there or
living creatures is zoo. So where you
just have zoologology again just to just
to emphasize.
So zoe when we see zoe we are just
seeing life. we now need to qualify what
kind of life it is by study by
examination of the context the things
that are being said around around that
life okay so I hope we understand um
where I'm coming from on this matter so
when it says the newness of life what
life is he talking about exactly and
this issue of life is something that was
in the sensibilities of the Jews you
know particularly in the time of the
Lord Jesus there was an expectation of
entry into life of having eternal life
of inheriting eternal life. So life as a
concept was not strange to them. The
only issue here is that they thought of
life as with a sense of a world. So life
had these external conditions as well as
internal conditions to it. And there are
text where we see the um Lord Jesus
interacting with people on the concept
of life and he's speaking about that
world that life you enter into. It's
like today when someone says oh we are
going to um we're going to heaven we
know we are going that's like the person
saying there's a different kind of life
you know different from this kind of
life person went into a new world let me
give another example even from our in
the natural sense if you are in a
tropical region like um Nigeria Africa
or not all of Africa I think subs Africa
you know um and you are in a
non-tropical region let's say Europe
America And
then the we are in two worlds. The
external conditions are different. So
whilst we are both humans that have the
same internal conditions. So we share
the same reality, the same human nature,
we are living in different external
conditions. So it could be hot somewhere
and it's very cold somewhere else, you
know. And so our life in Europe at the
moment is like this. And someone says
life in I don't want to use Africa
because Africa is too sweeping. Let's
just say life in Nigeria is like this.
Then someone says life in maybe the UK
is like this at the moment. All right.
So you are saying that life is this very
big word. So when they say entering into
life, inheriting life, there are times
where they are speaking about life as a
world that people enter into, right? So
as a world with external conditions and
also that requires some internal
conditions. For example, life in water.
There's a there are some internal
conditions to really have life in water.
That's why if a man is going there, he
needs um oxygen because that's not how
we that's not how life on on dry land is
on out of water is. Now, there are times
where the word eternal life is used and
the Lord is conversing about it and he's
speaking about life restricted to the
internal conditions. This is very common
in the book of John. Even though the
book of John also has life with this
external and internal condition you are
entering into a world right but there
are times where you now start to see him
say the person had life in himself and
he's speaking about life like when you
say dog life in a dog so the dog's way
and you're talking about the cat's way
and there's the animations don't forget
that life the animations of that life
that comes with being a dog is different
from the animations that comes with
being a cockroach different from the
animation that comes with being um an
alligator different from the animation
that comes with being a lion different
from the animations that comes with
being an human being. So there's life in
and there's life as the entire reality
both the external and the internal
conditions.
So Zoe captures both and when he says we
are to walk in newness of life by the
very context in which Paul is speaking
he has in mind life as both external
conditions as well as internal ones. And
we're going to get into looking at that
in the next episode. Thank you. Fulfill
God's purpose.
>> We trust you are blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.